Multitask fine-tuning
is an extension
of single task fine-tuning,
where the training
dataset is comprised of
example inputs and outputs
for multiple tasks.
Here, the dataset
contains examples that
instruct the model to carry
out a variety of tasks,
including summarization,
review rating,
code translation, and
entity recognition.
You train the model on
this mixed dataset so
that it can improve
the performance of the model on
all the tasks simultaneously,
thus avoiding the issue of
catastrophic forgetting.
Over many epochs of training,
the calculated losses
across examples
are used to update the
weights of the model,
resulting in an instruction
tuned model that is learned
how to be good at many
different tasks simultaneously.
One drawback to multitask
fine-tuning is that it
requires a lot of data.
You may need as many as
50-100,000 examples
in your training set.
However, it can be
really worthwhile
and worth the effort
to assemble this data.
The resulting models
are often very
capable and suitable for use in
situations where
good performance
at many tasks is desirable.
Let's take a look at one family
of models that have been
trained using multitask
instruction fine-tuning.
Instruct model variance
differ based on
the datasets and tasks
used during fine-tuning.
One example is the
FLAN family of models.
FLAN, which stands for
fine-tuned language net,
is a specific set
of instructions
used to fine-tune
different models.
Because they're FLAN
fine-tuning is the last step of
the training process the
authors of the original paper
called it the
metaphorical dessert to
the main course of pre-training
quite a fitting name.
FLAN-T5, the FLAN
instruct version of
the T5 foundation model while
FLAN-PALM is the
flattening struct version
of the palm foundation model.
You get the idea,
FLAN-T5 is a great general
purpose instruct model.
In total, it's
been fine tuned on
473 datasets across
146 task categories.
Those datasets are chosen from
other models and
papers as shown here.
Don't worry about reading
all the details right now.
If you're interested, you can
access the original
paper through
a reading exercise after
the video and take
a closer look.
One example of a prompt
dataset used for
summarization tasks
in FLAN-T5 is SAMSum.
It's part of the muffin
collection of tasks and datasets
and is used to train
language models to
summarize dialogue.
SAMSum is a dataset with
16,000 messenger like
conversations with summaries.
Three examples are
shown here with
the dialogue on the left and
the summaries on the right.
The dialogues and summaries
were crafted by linguists for
the express purpose
of generating
a high-quality training
dataset for language models.
The linguists were asked
to create conversations
similar to those that they
would write on a daily basis,
reflecting their
proportion of topics of
their real life
messenger conversations.
Although language
experts then created
short summaries of those
conversations that
included important pieces of
information and names of
the people in the dialogue.
Here is a prompt template
designed to work
with this SAMSum dialogue
summary dataset.
The template is
actually comprised of
several different
instructions that
all basically ask the model
to do this same thing.
Summarize a dialogue.
For example, briefly
summarize that dialogue.
What is a summary
of this dialogue?
What was going on in
that conversation?
Including different ways of
saying the same instruction
helps the model generalize
and perform better.
Just like the prompt
templates you saw earlier.
You see that in each case,
the dialogue from the
SAMSum dataset is
inserted into the template
wherever the dialogue
field appears.
The summary is
used as the label.
After applying this template to
each row in the SAMSum dataset,
you can use it to fine tune
a dialogue summarization task.
While FLAN-T5 is a
great general use model
that shows good
capability in many tasks.
You may still find
that it has room
for improvement on tasks
for your specific use case.
For example, imagine you're
a data scientist building an app
to support your
customer service team,
process requests received
through a chat bot,
like the one shown here.
Your customer service team needs
a summary of every
dialogue to identify
the key actions that the
customer is requesting and
to determine what actions
should be taken in response.
The SAMSum dataset gives
FLAN-T5 some abilities to
summarize conversations.
However, the examples
in the dataset are
mostly conversations
between friends
about day-to-day activities
and don't overlap much
with the language structure
observed in customer
service chats.
You can perform
additional fine-tuning
of the FLAN-T5 model using
a dialogue dataset
that is much closer to
the conversations that
happened with your bot.
This is the exact scenario that
you'll explore in
the lab this week.
You'll make use of
an additional domain
specific summarization
dataset called
dialogsum to improve
FLAN-T5's is
ability to summarize
support chat conversations.
This dataset consists of over
13,000 support chat
dialogues and summaries.
The dialogue some dataset is not
part of the FLAN-T5
training data,
so the model has not seen
these conversations before.
Let's take a look at
example from dialogsum and
discuss how a further round of
fine-tuning can
improve the model.
This is a support chat
that is typical of
the examples in the
dialogsum dataset.
The conversation is
between a customer and
a staff member at a
hotel check-in desk.
The chat has had a template
applied so that
the instruction to
summarize the conversation is
included at the
start of the text.
Now, let's take a
look at how FLAN-T5
responds to this prompt
before doing any
additional fine-tuning,
note that the prompt is now
condensed on the left to
give you more room to
examine the completion
of the model.
Here is the model's response
to the instruction.
You can see that the model
does as it's able to
identify that the
conversation was
about a reservation for Tommy.
However, it does
not do as well as
the human-generated
baseline summary,
which includes
important information
such as Mike asking
for information to
facilitate check-in and the
models completion has also
invented information that was
not included in the
original conversation.
Specifically the name of
the hotel and the city
it was located in.
Now let's take a look at
how the model does after
fine-tuning on the
dialogue some dataset,
hopefully, you will
agree that this is
closer to the
human-produced summary.
There is no fabricated
information and
the summary includes all
of the important details,
including the names of
both people participating
in the conversation.
This example, use
the public dialogue,
some dataset to demonstrate
fine-tuning on custom data.
In practice, you'll get the
most out of fine-tuning
by using your company's
own internal data.
For example, the support
chat conversations
from your customer
support application.
This will help the model learn
the specifics of how your
company likes to summarize
conversations and what is most
useful to your customer
service colleagues.
I know there's a lot
to take in here.
But don't worry, this example
is going to be
covered in the lab.
You'll get a chance to see this
in action and try it
out for yourself.
One thing you need to think
about when fine-tuning is how
to evaluate the quality of
your models completions.
In the next video,
you'll learn about
several metrics and
benchmarks that you can
use to determine how
well your model is performing
and how much better you're
fine-tuned version is than
the original base model.